THANKS, JOHN
.
WELCOME EVERYONE TO THE AUGUST
20TH 20 24 ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS MEETING YOU, TURNING
YOUR BACK.
I'M CANDACE FREYRE, CHAIRPERSON
OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS,
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS
A NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY JOHN BERRETT.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NINE THREE EIGHT ONE
SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO
SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD
.
>> WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE
THE APPEAL.
>> FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES
OF THE BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR AN APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT ON A
TIMELY BASIS.
>> ROLL CALL KANDICE I AM HERE
TO GRANT HERE DAVE DIVERSITY
HAVE ALREADY HERE PADI
LASKOWSKI JULIE WEATHERBEE HERE
MCDANIEL HERE DAMOS ECKMANN
CHRISTINA GUZIK HERE WE HAVE A
QUORUM MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS ON THE AGENDA?
IF NOT DO I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOTION FROM
JULIE THANK YOU.
>> SUPPORT FROM TODD ALL IN
FAVOR.
SAY HI POST MOVING ON TO
APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE JULY
24TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR ZEBA MEETING
.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS,
COMMENTS, CORRECTIONS ON THOSE
MINUTES?
>> IF NOT, DO I HAVE MOTION TO
APPROVE THE GEMINIDS?
>> THANK YOU.
CHILD SUPPORT SUPPORT FROM DAVE
ALL IN FAVOR SAY HI OPPOSED.
>> ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS
FIRST WE HAVE PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO TWO
FIVE ONE ZERO ONE FIVE BRADWAY
ST JOHN.
>> I'M JOHN ZONING COORDINATOR
FOR THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
BEFORE WE GO ANY FURTHER
TONIGHT WE HAVE A NEW ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS MEMBER BOARD
AND HER NAME IS PATTY LASKOWSKI
AND I JUST WANT TO GIVE HER A
WARM WELCOME AND HOPEFULLY
EVERYONE GETS TO KNOW HER IN
THE NEXT COUPLE OF MONTHS.
WELCOME.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
AS CANDACE WAS SAYING, THE
FIRST PETITION THIS EVENING IS
TEN FIFTEEN BROADWAY STREET.
EMILY PALACIOS REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER IS SEEKING A
VARIANCE OF ONE THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED EIGHTY THREE SQUARE
FEET FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DESH FOR MIXED USE
ZONING DISTRICT DIMENSION'S.
THE OWNERS ARE APPLYING FOR
ADMINISTRATIVE LAND TRANSFER
OF EIGHT HUNDRED SEVEN POINT
FIVE SQUARE FEET TO BE
TRANSFERRED TO THE ABUTTING
PROPERTY.
THE DISTRICT REQUIRES A MINIMUM
LOT AREA OF 6000 SQUARE FEET
AND THE CURRENT NONCONFORMING
LOT SIZE IS FIVE THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOUR POINT
FIVE SQUARE FEET.
THE PROPERTY ZONE C THREE
FRINGE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON
THE NORTH SIDE OF BROADWAY
STREET AND THE HURON RIVER AND
THE LOWERTOWN NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE STRUCTURE WAS BUILT IN 1935
IN THE NORTH SIDE GRILLE IS THE
CURRENT TENANT.
THE PARCEL IS FIVE THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED FORTY SQUARE FEET IN
AREA.
THE OWNER APPLIED FOR A LAND
DIVISION APPLICATION LD 24 ZERO
ZERO ZERO FIVE ON APRIL 10TH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR LEE
ENTERPRISES LLC IS THE OWNER
OF OF TEN FIFTEEN BROADWAY
STREET AND ONE THOUSAND SIX
PONTIAC STREET.
THE PROPERTY AT 1006 PONTIAC
STREET IS A CERTIFIED DUPLEX
RENTAL ZONE C THREE FRENCH
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
THE PARCEL IS THIRTEEN THOUSAND
FIVE HUNDRED THREE SQUARE FEET
AND AREA AND WILL BE FOURTEEN
THOUSAND TEN THREE HUNDRED AND
TEN POINT FIVE SQUARE FEET AND
AREA IF VARIANCE FOR THE LAND
TRANSFER IS APPROVED IF YOU'LL
TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO THE
MONITORS THE FIRST SLIDE YOU'LL
SEE IS THE ZONING MAP.
YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED IN GREEN AND YOUR
CENTER YOUR SCREEN AND THE
PROPERTY WHERE THE TRANSFER IS
TO TAKE PLACE IS LIKE I STATED
ABOVE IT TO THE REAR.
>> NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL MAP
SHOWING SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
AND EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY FROM A ZOOMED IN
PERSPECTIVE.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY THAT
WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THE DASHED
PORTION OF THIS SURVEY BACK
HERE WHERE MY CURSOR IS GOING
OVER IS THE EIGHT HUNDRED AND
SEVEN AND A HALF SQUARE FOOT
PORTION THAT IS BEING REQUESTED
TO BE TRANSFERRED TO THIS BACK
PARCEL.
THIS IS A FLOOR PLAN THAT WAS
SUBMITTED FOR THE BUILDING AT
THE APPLICANT WANTS TO COMMENT
FURTHER ON THAT.
>> THEY CAN GO TO THAT.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK AND MY INSPECTION.
>> YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
AND THE CURRENT TENANT.
THIS IS LOOKING DOWN THE DRIVE
TOWARDS THE BACK OF THE
PROPERTY AND THIS IS LOOKING
DIRECTLY AT THE REAR YARD
OF THE PROPERTY AND THE
BUILDING TO THE LEFT.
JUST ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE OF THE
PROPERTY, EXISTING PROPERTY,
ADJACENT PROPERTY.
THIS IS THE ABIDIN PROPERTY.
THIS IS THE AREA WHERE THE LAND
BEING REQUESTED TO BE
TRANSFERRED OVER IS WHERE THESE
SEVERAL PARKING SPOTS ARE
LOCATED AND THAT'S JUST ANOTHER
PERSPECTIVE.
THIS IS WHERE THE AREA OF LAND
BEING REQUESTED TO BE
TRANSFERRED.
THAT'S ALL I HAVE AT THIS TIME
AND I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU MAY HAVE JOHN JUST
GETTING ORIENTED HERE.
SO THE THE SMALLER PROPERTY IS
WAS KEEPING UP BEING LESS
CONFORMING IN THE LARGE
MARKETS.
I REALLY HAVE NO EIGHT HUNDRED
SEVEN POINT FIVE.
THAT'S CORRECT IN THE PURPOSE
BASICALLY USED TO STRAIGHTEN
OUT THE PARKING AREA AND MAKE
THE PROPERTIES MORE ACCEPTABLE
FOR MARRIAGE I GUESS PROBABLY
MORE LIKELY TO MAKE THE WINDOWS
SIX PROBABLY MORE AMENABLE TO A
MORTGAGE OR CONSTRUCTION OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> YEAH THE APPLICANT SAID TO
ALIGN THE PROPERTIES I BELIEVE
WAS ON THE APPLICATION BUT I
THINK WE'LL LET THEM COMMENT
FURTHER ON THE EXACT DETAILS
OF WHY THIS IS BEING REQUESTED
.
WELL, IT'S ALREADY SMALL FIVE
THOUSAND PLUS HE'S GOING TO
SHRINK THAT.
THAT'S CORRECT.
THANK YOU.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN
?
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THE APPLICANT IS HERE,
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
>> SIGN IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD.
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
>> I DO.
AND THEN BEFORE I DO THAT IF I
MAY APPROACH I BROUGHT SOME
PHOTOS TO THE DISCUSSION I
THOUGHT MIGHT BE INTERESTING
FOR PEOPLE TO SEE PARTLY
BECAUSE THE NATURE OF OUR CLASS
RELATES TO THE HISTORY AROUND
THIS PARTICULAR BLOCK AND THE
BUILDINGS WITH IT ARE KIND
OF FUN AND IF YOU'VE EVER
WONDERED WHY THE NORTH SIDE HAS
AROUND YOUR QUESTION WILL BE
THE ANSWER
.
JOHN, ARE YOU READY FOR ME TO
BEGIN?
YES, OK, THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS EMILY PLACE.
YES I DO REPRESENT KOELIE
ENTERPRISES JIM KOELIE, THE
OWNER OF THE PROPERTY IS BEHIND
ME AND WITH ME HERE TODAY VERY
BRIEFLY I WANTED TO PASS OUT
PHOTOS OF THE DAIRY BUILDING
THAT NORTH SIDE CURRENTLY
OCCUPIES AND YOU'LL SEE ON THE
SECOND PAGE A PICTURE OF THE
ANSEN BROWN BUILDING AND THE
ADJACENT COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE
THAT LIES JUST TO THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE NORTH SIDE AND WE
JUST KIND OF WANTED TO SHARE
THESE IMAGES WITH YOU TO GIVE
YOU A SORT OF THAT HISTORICAL
CONTEXT BECAUSE THAT REALLY IS
IN PART DRIVING THIS PARTICULAR
REQUEST.
IT IS OUR DESIRE TO TRY TO
ALIGN THE LAND USES ON THE
BLOCK MORE CLOSELY WITH SOME
PLOTLINES WHICH WILL FACILITATE
SOME SOME INVESTMENT IN THE
PROPERTY IN THE FUTURE
INCLUDING JUST INVESTMENT TO
MAINTAIN THE BUILDINGS THAT ARE
ON THE PROPERTY.
IT IS GENERALLY THE CASE THAT
LENDERS AND INVESTORS DON'T
LIKE TO SEE LAND USE
ENCROACHMENTS ON PROPERTY AND
WHAT WE HAVE HERE IS WE HAVE
THE ENCROACHMENT OF SOME
PARKING SPACES ONTO THE LOT
THAT'S OCCUPIED BY THE NORTH
SIDE AND THE AREA OF THAT
ENCROACHMENT ISN'T LARGE ENOUGH
TO ACCOMMODATE THOSE PARKING
SPOTS.
>> SO THEY'RE ACTUALLY
OVERHANGING INTO THE INTO OVER
A PROPERTY LINE INTO THE
ADJACENT PARKING LOT AND WE'D
VERY MUCH LIKE TO TO CLEAN THAT
UP.
I KNOW THIS BOARD HAS STANDARDS
THAT THEY NEED TO CONSIDER IN
GRANTING A REQUEST SUCH AS
THIS.
SO I'D LIKE TO USE MY TIME TO
JUST BRIEFLY ADDRESS WHY WE
THINK THAT THE PETITION MERITS
APPROVAL UNDER YOUR YOUR
STANDARDS THERE ARE FIVE
STANDARDS A THROUGH E WHAT WE
WOULD NOTE WITH RESPECT TO A IN
TERMS OF THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES BEING EXCEPTIONAL
PECULIAR TO THE PROPERTY IS
THAT THESE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES ARE ROOTED IN THE
PLANET.
LOTS AND STRUCTURES THAT LONG
PREDATE ANY ZONING IN THE IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR THE AND
BROWN BUILDING WAS BUILT IN
EIGHTEEN THIRTY TWO AND IS BACK
TO THE OLDEST COMMERCIAL
STRUCTURE IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN AS WELL AS THE
OLDEST COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE IN
ANN ARBOR.
THE BUILDING THAT'S RIGHT NEXT
TO IT IS THE SECOND OLDEST
COMMERCIAL BUILDING IN ANN
ARBOR.
THIS BLOCK WAS BROUGHT INTO THE
VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR IN ROUGHLY
EIGHTEEN SIXTY SEVEN AND WHEN
IT WAS BROUGHT INTO THE VILLAGE
IT WAS DONE AS AN ASSESSORS
PLAN WHICH MEANS THE ASSESSOR
BASICALLY MAPPED OUT PROPERTY
LINES RELATIVE TO WHO OWN THE
PROPERTY AT THE TIME.
SO THERE WASN'T REALLY A REAL
PLAN TO IT.
IT REFLECTED OWNERSHIP AND THE
PLACEMENT OF OF STRUCTURES.
>> SO THAT REALLY ACCOUNTS FOR
THE THE UNDERLYING LOT PATTERN
.
NORZAI GRILLES BEEN OPERATING
ON THIS BLOCK FOR MORE THAN 30
YEARS AND WHAT WAS THE WOOSTER
DAIRY COMPANY AND THAT'S THE
BUILDING THAT SHOWN YOU ON THE
FIRST PHOTOGRAPH.
AS I INDICATED, THE PROPERTY
OWNER IS SEEKING TO BETTER
ALIGN EXISTING LAND USES WITH
THE BLACK LINES TO LIMIT
ELIMINATE THE PARTIAL PARKING
ENCROACHMENTS SHORT OF CLEARING
THE ENTIRE BLOCK AND
SUBDIVIDING LAND.
THERE'S REALLY NO PRACTICAL
MEANS OF EVER BRINGING THE
NORTH SIDE LOT INTO COMPLIANCE.
WHAT MR. BARRETT POINTED TO IS
THE DRIVEWAY THAT HE SHOWED IN
HIS PHOTOGRAPHS IS ACTUALLY A
PUBLIC ALLEY WHICH IS WHY
THERE'S NO PARKING IN THAT AREA
SO THERE'S NO ABILITY TO GO
THAT DIRECTION.
THERE'S NO ABILITY TO GO THE
OTHER DIRECTION TOWARD THE
HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
SO REALLY TRYING TO INCREASE
THE LOT SIZE WITH RESPECT TO
THE LOT THAT THE NORTH SIDE
BUILDING IS LOCATED ON WOULD
REQUIRE US TO TAKE LAND FROM
THAT PARKING LOT WHICH WOULD
ONLY INCREASE THE ENCROACHMENT
RATHER THAN REDUCE IT, WHICH
WOULD JUST MAKE IT MORE
DIFFICULT TO IN THE FUTURE DO
SOME SORT OF MORTGAGING OR
INVESTMENT WITH RESPECT TO TO
THIS BLOCK WITH RESPECT TO
STANDARD B, WHETHER OR NOT THE
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES ARE MORE
THAN A MERE INCONVENIENCE OR AN
INABILITY TO ATTAIN HIGHER
FINANCIAL RETURN.
WE'VE MENTIONED THAT LENDERS
INVESTORS DISFAVOR PROJECTS
WHERE USES ARE ON ONE LOT ON ON
ONE LOT ENCROACH ON OTHER LAND
AND ARE NOT CAPABLE OF STANDING
ALONE.
SO WE'RE REALLY TRYING TO
CREATE A BLOCK THAT STANDS ON
ITS OWN WITH RESPECT TO THE
BUILDINGS AND ONE MINUTE
REMAINING IS ONE MINUTE
REMAINING.
>> OH THEN I WILL SPEED
SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE.
I WOULD POINT OUT THAT WE
BELIEVE THAT THERE'S
SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE HERE IN
THAT DOING THIS IS CONSISTENT
WITH THE GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE WHICH
INCLUDE CONTINUING AND
ENCOURAGING INVESTMENT IN
HISTORIC NEIGHBORHOODS AND
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS THAT ARE
IMPORTANT TO THE SHARED HISTORY
OF BANABA.
WE THINK THAT THIS IS TRUE
HERE.
I'M GOING TO SKIP AHEAD TO NOT
SELF CREATED .
THAT'S THE HISTORICAL PIECE AND
THEN VERY LAST I WOULD SAY ONE
THING THAT WE WOULD LIKE TO
POINT OUT IS THIS PROPERTY ZONE
C THREE, THAT PARTICULAR ZONING
DISTRICT REQUIRES A MINIMUM SIX
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET.
THAT IS THE ONLY COMMERCIAL
DISTRICT IN THE CITY THAT
REQUIRES THAT MUCH LAND AS A
MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
THE OTHER ZONING COMMERCIAL
ZONING DISTRICTS THAT ARE
PRESENT IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
ARE C1 AND C ONE A ARE THE C
ONE DISTRICT ONLY REQUIRES A
TWO THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
MINIMUM LOT SIZE AND THE C ONE
R HAS NO MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
SO THIS PROPERTY IS A
PARTICULARLY BURDENED BY THIS
MINIMUM LOT SIZE REQUIREMENT
AND WOULD NOT BE OUT OF LINE
WITH THE OTHER LIGHTING
PATTERNS IN THE AREA IF THE
VARIANCE WERE REQUESTED OR
APPROVED.
THANK YOU CLARENCE FOR THE
PETITIONER I HAVE A NUMBER
OF QUESTIONS.
>> OK, FIVE MINUTES WITH YOU
CAN CALL ME TODD.
I DIDN'T CATCH YOUR LAST NAME.
I'M SORRY.
THAT'S OK.
SO I DON'T REALLY UNDERSTAND
BETTER ALIGN EXISTING LAND USES
BECAUSE THE THE THE 800 SQUARE
FEET IS GOING TO MOVE FROM ONE
LOT TO ANOTHER UNDER YOUR
REQUEST IS PARKING AND REMAIN
PARKING IN THE FUTURE.
>> CORRECT.
SO THE LAND USE WON'T CHANGE
THE LAND USES ARE NOT GOING TO
CHANGE BUT RIGHT NOW PORTIONS
OF THE PARKING LOT ENCROACH ON
THE LOT THAT'S OCCUPIED BY THE
WOODY RESTAURANT BUILDING
GROUP.
>> THEY THEY OVERLAP THE
PROPERTY LINE.
OK, RIGHT.
SO THERE'S A LOT LINE THAT RUNS
THROUGH LOT FIVE WHICH IS THE
LOT THAT IS THE NORTH SIDE
RESTAURANT LOT AND THEN ABOVE
THAT IS LOT EIGHT WHICH IS
PARKING AND THE TWO FAMILY THE
DUPLEX THAT MR. BARRETT
DESCRIBED THE PARKING SPACES
THAT ARE ON LOT EIGHT OVERLAP
INTO LOT FIVE AND SO THEY ARE
NOT REALLY PART OF THE
RESTAURANT USE.
THEY ARE PART OF THAT PARKING
LOT THAT SUPPORTS ALL OF THE
USES ON THE BLOCK AND THAT IS
FORMERLY ASSOCIATED WITH THE
THE DUPLEX ON ON THE BLOCK.
>> AND SO THAT'S THE
ENCROACHMENT THAT THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT AND LENDERS AND
INVESTORS GREATLY DISFAVOR
THOSE KINDS OF ENCROACHMENTS
BECAUSE THEY LIKE FOR LAND USES
TO STAND ON THEIR OWN.
>> WELL, WHAT'S WRONG WITH JUST
DOING AN EASEMENT?
YOU'VE GOT THE SAME OWNER
SERVING A DOMINANT TENANTS ARE
THE SAME JUST CREATE AN
EASEMENT HAPPENS ALL THE TIME.
>> WHAT DO YOU NEED TO BE HERE?
WELL, AN EASEMENT WON'T QUITE
RESOLVE IT IN THE SAME WAY THAT
MOVING THE LOT BOUNDARY WILL
RESOLVE IT ISSUES IT IS AN
ENCUMBRANCE THAT AGAIN IS
DISFAVORED BY BY LENDERS AND
INVESTORS BECAUSE IT LIMITS THE
USE OF JUDGMENT IN THE BELIEF
THAT MY PROPERTY HAS EASEMENTS
,IT HAS LOTS OF UTILITY
EASEMENTS.
THERE IS PROBABLY A LOT IN THE
CITY THAT DOESN'T HAVE EASEMENT
ON IT.
>> AGREED.
BUT AN EASEMENT THAT IS FOR AN
ADJACENT LAND USE THAT IS
INTENDED TO STAND ON ITS OWN IS
IS VERY DIFFERENT THAN A
UTILITY EASEMENT THAT PROVIDES
A DIRECT BENEFIT TO THE TO THE
BUILDING THAT IS ON THE
PRINCIPLE AT A GROCERY THAT IF
YOU HANDLED THIS BY EASEMENT I
THINK YOU COULD THAT SOMEHOW
THIS WOULD MAKE A MORTGAGEE
BANK MORE RELUCTANT TO LEND
MONEY TO REDEVELOP THE SPACE.
>> I THINK IT ACTUALLY WHERE
IT'S GOING TO PROBABLY HAVE AS
MUCH IMPACT ON THE RESTAURANT
IS ON THE PARKING BEHIND
BECAUSE THOSE SPACES WOULD BE
THEN ENCUMBERED BY BY AN
EASEMENT AND OUR REAL DESIRES
FOR THE PARKING TO STAND ON ITS
OWN THE PARKING SERVICES THE
ENTIRE BLOCK THESE THESE SPACES
ARE RESERVED TO THE NORTH SIDE
WHEN THE NORTH SIDE IS IN
OPERATION, PEOPLE IN THE
SURROUNDING AREAS CAN'T PARK
HERE BUT CERTAINLY THE USERS
OF THE OTHER BUILDINGS ON THE
BLOCK ARE ABLE TO USE THOSE
PARKING SPACES AND SO IT REALLY
IS A COMMON PARKING LOT AND IT
WOULD BE MORE BENEFICIAL TO THE
LONG TERM MANAGEMENT OF THAT
FOR ALL OF THAT AREA TO BE
INCORPORATED INTO ONE LOT
DESCRIPTION AND NOT BE HANDLED
BY EASEMENT.
SO WHAT YOU'RE SAYING NOW IS
THE 800 SQUARE FEET THAT THESE
ARE COMMON PARKING AREA SO TO
SPEAK, IF USED BY A NUMBER
OF PROPERTIES, IS THEIR
EASEMENT OR A LICENSE FOR THEM
TO DO THAT OR IS IT JUST BY
INFORMAL CUSTOMER?
>> NO, IT IS IT IS IT IS BY
LICENSE.
THE LOTS ARE ALL CURRENTLY
SEPARATELY TO DRIVE AND UNDER
SEPARATE DEEDS BUT THERE IS
COMMON OWNERSHIP WITH COLLEANO
PRIZES.
SO KOELIE ENTERPRISES GRANTS
PERMISSION FOR ITS TENANTS AND
ITS CUSTOMERS TO TO USE THE YOU
KNOW I'M JUST NOT THERE ISN'T
ANYTHING IN YOUR REQUEST THAT I
DON'T THINK YOU COULD GET BY
SIMPLY HAVING AN EASEMENT AND
THE PARKING AREAS YOU WANT TO
MOVE YOU JUST SAID THAT A
NUMBER OF BUSINESSES USE THOSE
PARKING AREAS SO ESSENTIALLY
YOU HAVE MULTIPLE BUSINESSES
ENCROACHING AS IT WERE ON THIS
EIGHT HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
OF PARKING AREAS AND THAT'S NOT
GOING TO CHANGE.
>> IT IS REALLY THE PARKING
SPACES THAT ARE ENCROACHING ON
THE NORTH SIDE PROPERTY AND WE
WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THOSE
PARKING SPACES FULLY
INCORPORATED INTO THE PARKING
LOT OF WHICH THEY ARE PART OF .
>> SO I UNDERSTAND HOW A
BUILDING CAN ENCROACH ON A LOT
BUT HOW DOES A PARKING SPACE
THROUGH SPACE ISN'T GOING TO BE
REWORKED?
THE YELLOW MARKINGS AREN'T
CHANGE THE WHITE MARKINGS I WAS
ENCROACHING OR WILL STOP
ENCROACHING IF WE GRAB THIS
REQUEST BECAUSE THE PROPERTY
BOUNDARY WILL BE REDRAWN SUCH
THAT THOSE PARKING SPACES WILL
BE LEGALLY AND FROM A ZONING
PERSPECTIVE ATTACHED TO LOT
EIGHT AND THEY WILL NO LONGER
BE ATTACHED TO THE RESTAURANT.
THE RESTAURANT WILL CONTINUE TO
HAVE THE SAME USE BY LICENSE
RIGHTS AS AS CURRENTLY EXISTS.
BUT WE WILL THEN HAVE A
SITUATION WHERE WE DON'T HAVE
LAND USES ENCROACHING OVER LONG
LINES WHICH I THINK IS
SOMETHING THAT ZONING GENERALLY
TRIES TO DISCOURAGE.
THAT'S PART OF THE PURPOSE
OF CONDUCTING SITE PLAN REVIEW
.
THERE ARE ALMOST NO SITE PLANS
THAT EXIST FOR THIS LOT.
NO PLAN REVIEWS THAT HAVE EVER
OCCURRED BECAUSE OF THE AGE
OF THE STRUCTURES AND THE
NATURE OF THE LIGHTING AND SO
WE'RE REALLY JUST TRYING TO
COME RATIONALIZE PLOT LINES TO
LAND USES UNDER ZONING THAT WAS
PUT IN PLACE DECADES AFTER THE
BUILDINGS IN THE LOTS WERE WERE
CREATED AND JUST ELIMINATING A
VERY SMALL BURDEN THAT EXISTS
ON THE PROPERTY OWNER.
THERE'S NO ADJACENT PROPERTY
OWNER THAT'S GOING TO BE
NEGATIVELY IMPACTED BY BY THIS
ACTIVITY.
THERE'S ZERO DETRIMENTAL IMPACT
TO ANY OTHER LANDOWNER.
WE DID HAVE THE PUBLIC HEARING
AT THE LAST ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS MEETING AND THERE
WERE NO ONE APPEARED TO OBJECT
TO THIS REQUEST.
I DON'T BELIEVE ANY LETTERS
WERE RECEIVED OBJECTING TO THIS
REQUEST.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS, DAVE?
SO SO JIM CORLEONE'S ALL THESE
PARCELS THAT ARE ON THE SLIDE
RIGHT NOW, HE OR LIMITED
LIABILITY COMPANIES?
YEAH, HE CONTROLS YES.
>> THAT'S ONE YOU'RE THE I'M
I'M TRYING TO LOOK AT WHAT SO
YOU'RE TAKING APART THE LITTLE
AREA RIGHT BEHIND THE NORTH
SIDE GRILL AND YOU WANT TO MAKE
THAT PART OF IT.
THE LARGE PARTS THAT'S THE
DUPLEX.
>> YEP.
AND SO WHAT YOU'RE SEEING IN
ORANGE WOULD BE THE RESULTING
FOIL NORTH SIDE.
WHY ARE YOU I'M JUST NOT SEEING
WHY YOU NEED EXTRA SPACE IN
THAT THE LARGEST PARCEL THAT'S
THERE BECAUSE THE LARGEST
PARCEL THAT'S THERE HAS GOT
PLENTY OF SPACE TO DO WHATEVER
YOU WANT ON IF IF THE NORTH
SIDE CAME IN ON A STANDALONE
SITE PLAN, THE ENCROACHMENT
OF THESE PARKING SPACES ONTO
THE PARKING LOT WOULD BE AN
ISSUE.
IT WOULD BE AN ISSUE FOR THE
PLANNING REVIEW AND IT WOULD BE
A ZONING ISSUE THAT WE WOULD BE
TOLD TO TO CORRECT AND THAT'S
WHAT WE ARE TRYING TO CORRECT
FOR AT THE END OF THE DAY IT
DOESN'T CHANGE ANYTHING WITH
RESPECT TO HOW THE LOT IS GOING
TO OPERATE.
IT'S JUST ALIGNING LAND USES TO
TO PLOT LINES IN A WAY THAT
ALLOWS FOR THIS SITE TO BE MORE
RATIONALLY APPROACHED FROM AN
INVESTMENT AND FROM A ZONING
PERSPECTIVE
GOING FORWARD,
WHICH IS WHY WE'RE HERE SEEKING
THE RELIEF WE ARE I'M NOT
UNDERSTANDING THIS.
>> THE NORTHSIDE GORILLA IS A
COMMERCIAL USE.
THE PARKING THAT SERVES IT IS A
LEGITIMATE USE FOR THAT
COMMERCIAL USE.
I DON'T SEE HOW YOU NEED TO
ALIGN IT THE PURPOSE I'M I'M
JUST NOT UNDERSTANDING THE
RATIONALE FOR THIS AND I'M
WONDERING THIS PUBLIC ALI, WHY
NOT ASK THE CITY TO VACATE IT
SOMETHING YEAH.
SO YEAH IF YOU WANT TO SPEAK
YES.
>> I HAVE ASKED THEM TO AND
THEY WON'T BECAUSE THEY CLAIM
THEY NEED IT BECAUSE WHEN THEY
GO TO EMPTY THE DUMPSTERS THAT
THEY DON'T WANT TO BACK OUT
INTO BROADWAY AND THAT IF IT
WAS USED FOR SOMETHING ELSE.
THE OTHER THING IS THAT IF THE
PROPERTIES WERE BROKEN UP IT'S
NICE THAT I'VE ASSEMBLED THESE
PROPERTIES THOSE PARKING SPACES
AND BACK IN NORTHSIDE WOULD NOT
BE ACCESSIBLE WITHOUT
TRESPASSING ON WHOEVER THEN
WOULD OWN THAT LARGER LOT AND
AGAIN TO ALIGN IT THIS WAY IS A
WAY TO CLEAN THAT UP MAD FACT
IF YOU LOOK HISTORICALLY THAT
USED TO BE RIGHT IN BACK
OF THAT A 40 FOOT BY 50 FOOT
PIECE OF PROPERTY WHICH I HAD
ATTACHED TO THAT BIG PARKING
LOT BECAUSE AGAIN IT WAS AN
ISLAND THERE THAT SERVE NO
PURPOSE LEFT OVER FROM THE DAYS
AGAIN THIS GOES BACK TO
EIGHTEEN THIRTY TWO AND AGAIN
ONLY THREE PROPERTIES ON THIS
BLOCK WOULD CONFORM TO YOUR
6000 SQUARE FOOT MINIMUM ONLY
FOR THOSE PROPERTIES OF THE TEN
THAT ARE THERE EVEN EFSI PLANS
BECAUSE OF THE AGE OF THE
PROPERTY'S ORIGINAL PART OF ANN
ARBOR AND WE'RE STRUGGLING TO
FIND FIND A WAY TO MAKE ALL
THIS WORK AGAIN WHETHER IT'S
NICE THAT I'VE ASSEMBLED THESE
PIECES OF PROPERTY BUT I'M SURE
WHAT I'M GOING TO DO WITH THEM
IN THE FUTURE I MIGHT WANT TO
BREAK THEM APART.
SO I'M AS INDIVIDUAL LIKE THEY
ARE AND THAT LITTLE BIT IN THE
BACK THEN BECOMES A PROBLEM
BECAUSE IT BECOMES UNACCESSIBLE
.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE WERE TRYING
TO SO THE LITTLE BIT A LITTLE
BIT IN THE BACK BELONGS TO THE
NORTH SIDE GIRL.
>> CORRECT.
THIS BELONGS TO THAT PARCEL.
>> SO YOU IT'S PART OF NORTH
SIDE OWNED BY COLLIE
ENTERPRISES.
OK, AND YOU COULD BUILD AN
EXPANSION OF YOUR RESTAURANT ON
THAT LA YOU COULD BRING DOWN
THE ENTIRE BUILDING AND
REBUILD.
RIGHT.
THAT SEEMS TO BE WHAT SANABIS
SEEMS TO WANT ME TO DO.
THE NEXT DOOR PROPERTY IS A
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT.
IT'S NOWHERE NEAR YOUR SIX
THOUSAND YOU BROWN BUILDING IS
TWO THOUSAND SQUARE.
>> YOU COULD EXPAND YOUR
OUTDOOR SEATING AREA WHERE YOU
KNOW EVERYONE YOU KNOW WHETHER
YOU PARK A PARK IN FRONT OF IT
SO THEN YOU LOSE.
SO THEN IF I SOLD THE OTHER
PIECE OF PROPERTY THEY COULD
PUT PARKING RIGHT IN FRONT
OF IT BLOCKING IT OFF, PUT A
FENCE UP.
>> YEAH THAT THAT THE DEPTH
OF THAT SPACE IS SHORTER THAN
STANDARD PARKING SPACE.
SO THERE THERE I THINK THE CITY
WOULD HAVE TROUBLE APPROVING
PARKING THERE IF THIS WERE IN
FRONT OF THEM FOR FOR A SITE
PLAN AND WE WOULD LIKE TO KEEP
THAT PARKING PARKING IS AT A
PREMIUM IN THAT NEIGHBORHOOD AS
AS IT IS BECAUSE THE BUSINESSES
THAT ARE LOCATED ON THE BLOCK
THAT ARE ARE ACTUALLY
BUSINESSES THAT ARE REALLY
TAKING RE-ROUTE GIVEN THE NEW
DEVELOPMENT IN THE IN THE LOWER
TOWN AREA ON THAT LOWER TOWN
PROJECT.
SO ANYONE ON THIS SIDE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS?
YES.
THE YES.
WELL WE INDICATED IS THAT THE
PRACTICAL IN THIS CASE IT'S
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES BECAUSE
WE'RE SEEKING A DIMENSIONAL
VARIANCE.
HARDSHIP APPLIES TO A USE
VARIANCE AND WE'RE NOT SEEKING
THAT.
BUT IT'S REALLY THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY IN COMPLYING WITH A
MINIMUM LOT SIZE REQUIREMENT
STEMS FROM THE EXISTING
STRUCTURES AND THE EXISTING
LIGHTING PATTERN WHERE YOU
CAN'T MOVE THOSE HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IT TAKE TO CREATE
MORE LOT AREA TO EVER BRING THE
NORTH SIDE LOT UP TO THE SIX
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET WE CAN'T
GO ACROSS WE CAN'T TAKE THE
LAND FROM THE ALLEY BECAUSE
IT'S A PUBLIC ALLEY THAT THE
CITY HAS TOLD MR. KOHLI THAT
THEY NEED TO HAVE REMAIN IN
PLACE.
WE'D ALSO POINT OUT THAT THE
GAS STATION THAT IS ALSO A
HISTORIC USE THEIRS UNDER AND
HAS BEEN UNDER ENVIRONMENTAL
INVESTIGATION FOR FOR A NUMBER
OF YEARS.
THERE'S MONITORING WELLS THAT
ARE INSTALLED IN BOTH BROADWAY
AND NEAR THE GAS STATION AND SO
NOT AN AREA THAT WE CAN BEGIN
TO MOVE TO.
SO THE ONLY PLACE THAT WE CAN
LOOK TO TO TRY TO RATIONALIZE
THESE PROPERTY LINES RELATIVE
TO THE USES IS BETWEEN THE
PARKING LOT LOT AND LOTFY WHICH
IS THE NORTH SIDE AND WE LOOKED
AT DID IT MAKE SENSE TO YOU
KNOW, LOP OFF THOSE SPACES AND
MAINTAIN THE NORTH SIDE BUT
THAT WOULD POTENTIALLY
EVENTUALLY RESULT IN THE LOSS
OF THOSE PARKING SPACES AND WE
CAN'T CARVE OUT MORE AREA OUT
OF IT BECAUSE THAT'S JUST GOING
TO TAKE THE NORTH SIDE USE
FURTHER INTO THE CIRCULATION
LANE THAT IS THE PARKING LOT.
SO WE HAVE LOOKED AT THE
VARIOUS ALTERNATIVES.
BUT FURTHER TO ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION IN TERMS OF THIS IS
NOT A MERE INCONVENIENCE.
IT IS AN IMPEDIMENT TO EVEN
SEEKING FINANCING TO MAINTAIN
THE STATUS QUO AND I PRACTICED
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE.
I DEAL WITH REAL ESTATE LENDERS
ALL THE TIME.
THEY DON'T LIKE THESE KINDS
OF SITUATIONS BECAUSE IF THEY
SHOULD EVER HAVE TO COME AND
FORECLOSE THEIR MORTGAGE FOR
SOME REASON IT MAKES MORE
COMPLEX AND SO THEY WORK VERY
HARD TO FORCE PROPERTY OWNERS
TO CLEAN UP THESE SORTS
OF SITUATIONS.
SO WE'RE TRYING TO RATIONALIZE
IT IT NOW IN TERMS OF THE
PUBLIC PUBLIC BENEFITS I TALKED
ABOUT THAT THIS IS REALLY A
REQUEST THAT'S CONSISTENT WITH
ONE OF THE STATED OBJECTIVES
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE WHICH IS
ENCOURAGING CONTINUED
INVESTMENT IN HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
CORRECTING FOR THIS
ENCROACHMENT WILL FACILITATE
ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT ON THE
BLOCK.
IT ALSO ENCOURAGES COMMERCIAL
DISTRICTS THAT ARE IMPORTANT TO
THE SHARED HISTORY.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO.
WE'RE SHOWING YOU THAT WE'RE
MAINTAINING ALL OF THE EXISTING
BUSINESS BUILDINGS IN PLACE
THAT HAVE HISTORICAL ROOTS.
IT IS NOT SELF IMPOSED OR SELF
CREATED .
WE ARE DEALING WITH EXISTING
BUILDINGS AND LOT LINES.
NOTHING HERE IS A KOELIE
ENTERPRISES CREATION AND THEN
FINALLY THE LAST STANDARD WAS
THAT IT WILL MAKE A REASONABLE
USE OF LAND OR STRUCTURE.
IT WILL MAKE FOR A REASONABLE
USE OF BOTH THE PARKING LOT AND
THE NORTH SIDE BUILDINGS AND IT
REPRESENTS THE SMALLEST
VARIANCE THAT WE COULD POSSIBLY
REQUEST.
>> YOU'LL NOTE THAT IT'S JUST
IT'S NOT OUT TO TAKE CARE
OF THE FOUR PARKING SPACES THAT
CREATE THE ENCROACHMENT.
BUT TWO, IF YOU'RE LOOKING AT
THE DRAWING TO THE THE WEST
THERE IS A LITTLE BIT OF SPACE
AT THE BACK END OF THE NORTH
SIDE BUILDING THAT WILL BE
RETAINED AS PART OF THAT.
AND THEN IF YOU GO EVEN FURTHER
TO THE WEST, THERE'S A LOT SIX
THAT STAYING OVER ON OUTSIDE
THERE'S ONE PARKING SPACE THAT
FITS IN LIKE SIX IT'S FINE.
>> WE'RE TRYING TO DO THE
MINIMUM AMOUNT TO CLEAN IT UP.
TODD, A FEW MORE QUESTIONS.
SO JUST TO BE CLEAR AGAIN,
THERE'S EIGHT HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET OF PARKING THAT IS USED BY
MULTIPLE BUSINESSES NOW AND
WHETHER IT STAYS WITH THE NORTH
SIDE GRILLE OR WHETHER IT MOVES
TO 106 BROADWAY SPACES ARE
STILL GOING TO BE ACCESSED AND
USED BY MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
>> CORRECT?
>> YES.
BUT THEY WILL BE YES.
THEY WOULD STILL STILL BE A
COMMON SHARED USE PARKING AREA
ALL UNDER THE DEED RESTRICTION
UNDER THE DEED THE DEED
DESCRIPTION RELATES TO LOTTI
WITH THE ADDITIONAL EIGHT
HUNDRED FEET ADDED WHICH PUTS
THAT ENTIRE PARKING LOT UNDER
COMMON ONE COMMON CONTROL ONE
COMMON LEGAL DESCRIPTION WHICH
WILL COST MILITATED IN THE
FUTURE.
BUT THAT PARKING LARGER ONE IS
GOING TO HAVE MULTIPLE
BUSINESSES THAT USE IT BECAUSE
MULTIPLE BUSINESSES WILL USE
THAT 800 SQUARE FEET AND THEN
ONES I ASSUME TENANTS IN THE
WINDOWS SIX BROADWAY WILL
CONTINUE TO USE IT, RIGHT?
>> YES, THERE'S THERE'S NOT AN
INTENT TO RESTRICT ITS USE
RIGHT NOW.
THE TENANTS OF THE ANSON BROWN
BUILDING AND THE BUILDING THAT
FACE BROADWAY ARE ARE ABLE TO
USE THAT LOT.
THEY'RE TENANTS AND THEIR AND
THEIR CUSTOMERS ARE ABLE TO USE
THAT THAT LOT.
>> HAVE YOU HAD A BUYER THAT'S
BLOCKED IT BY ONE OF THESE
PROPERTIES BECAUSE OF THIS
ARRANGEMENT?
>> MR COLEY'S ON THESE
PROPERTIES FOR THIRTY YEARS AND
HE'S BEEN A GOOD STEWARD
OF THEM AND THERE WE HAVE NOT
WE ARE NOT IN A POSITION
OF MARKETING IT.
THE NORTH SIDE IS IS LOOKING TO
CONTINUE TO INVEST AND MAINTAIN
ITS BLOCK AND THERE'S
SIGNIFICANT COSTS ASSOCIATED
WITH HISTORIC BUILDINGS THAT
ARE OF THIS AGE AND WE WANT TO
POSITION THE LOT IN A WAY THAT
IT CAN BE MAINTAINED STATUS QUO
EVEN INTO THE FUTURE AND WITH
THESE ENCROACHMENTS THAT PUTS
BURDEN EVEN ON MAINTAINING THE
STATUS QUO AND THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO ALLEVIATE.
HAVE YOU HAD A LENDER THIS PART
OF LENDING MONEY ON WHAT ARE
BOTH OF THESE LAST BECAUSE
OF THIS AS YOU AS YOU ALLEGING
ENCROACHMENT?
I DON'T SEE IT.
>> YOU'RE SAYING IT'S I WE I AM
NOT GOING TO CLAIM THAT WE HAVE
A SPECIFIC LENDER THAT IS
REQUIRED THIS BUT IT IS GENERAL
PRACTICE IN COMMERCIAL REAL
ESTATE AND WE'RE TRYING TO GET
OUT OF HEAD OF AN ISSUE THAT WE
KNOW WILL BE RAISED.
>> YOUR ASSERTION, MA'AM IS NEW
TO ME AS A MATTER STUFF.
I DON'T SEE WHY THIS CAN'T BE
HAPPENING.
I DAY FOR YOU DO NOT CONVINCE
ME, DAVE.
>> GO AHEAD.
SO THIS LITTLE BIT OF PARKING
RIGHT BEHIND THE NORTH SIDE
BUILDING IS BEING TRANSFERRED
TO THE LARGEST PARCEL THERE
WHICH HAS THAT DUPLEX.
I'M NOT SURE IF IT WOULD BE ON
PONTIAC TRAIL OR SWIFT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE ADDRESS
IS ON THAT ONE THOUSAND SIX
PONTIAC STREET AND YOU'RE
YOU'RE PROPOSING TO TRANSFER
THIS LITTLE BIT OF PARKING INTO
THAT LARGER LOT, CORRECT.
AND NOTHING'S HAPPENING TO
THESE OLD THESE OLDER BUILDINGS
LIKE WHERE WHAT WAS IT ST
VINCENT DE PAUL THAT WAS IN THE
ANTHONY BROWN BUILDING THE ST
VINCENT DE PAUL SAID THERE'S
KIND OF THAT DOTTED LINE THERE
LOT I CAN'T REALLY READ IT.
THERE'S A BUILDING ON THAT I
THINK THAT'S ON THERE IS THAT
CHANCE SWIFTLY THOUSAND FEET.
>> YES, YEP.
YEP.
THERE ARE THOSE TWO ON SWIFT.
YEAH.
THOSE BUILDINGS ARE CONNECTED
BY A STRUCTURE THAT'S ABOVE
GRADE IT THAT'S OPEN AT GRADE
WHEN YOU DRIVE BY THERE BUT
THERE'S A SECOND FLOOR SECOND
FLOOR STRUCTURE THAT CONNECTS
THOSE TWO BUILDINGS OR THAT
OVERHANGS I DON'T KNOW THAT
THERE'S ACTUALLY A PHYSICAL
PASS THROUGH BUT IT OVERHANG I
DON'T KNOW THAT WE HAVE A
PICTURE OF IT NOW
.
ANY OF THE QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, NOW'S YOUR
CHANCE THERE'S ANYONE PRESENT
PLEASE COME FORWARD IF ANYONE
ACCESSING THE MEETING REMOTELY
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE OR USE THE RACE
AND FEATURE.
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS AT THIS
TIME.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
WITH THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
OR NOT YOU WELL I WILL JUST SAY
I'M NOT CONVINCED BY THIS.
I THINK APPEASEMENT WOULD
HANDLE IT.
I'M HUNG UP ON THE RELATIVE
SIZE OF THE PROPERTY SINCE SOME
OF THE OTHER COMMERCIAL
PROPERTIES ARE MUCH SMALLER AND
THIS IS A VERY UNUSUAL LONG
TERM HISTORY.
SO THAT THAT'S NOT A PROBLEM
FOR ME BUT THEY HAVE THEY HAVE
THE BURDEN OF PERSUASION TO
SHOW THAT THEY REALLY HAVE A
PROBLEM.
I DON'T THINK THEY DO.
I THINK AN EASEMENT WOULD JUST
TAKE CARE OF THIS AND THE NOT
SAID THAT ANY LENDER OR ANY
BUYER HAS BALKED AT THIS AND
THE PART THAT THEY WANT TO MOVE
AROUND IS STILL GOING TO BE
USED BY MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
AND IF YOU REALLY WANT TO CLEAN
IT UP YOU SAY I'M MOVING IT TO
MY APARTMENT BUILDING AND
NOBODY CAN PARK IN THE DOWN
LOT.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT THEY'RE
DOING.
THEY'RE GOING TO LET THE PEOPLE
WHO CURRENTLY PARK HERE MOVE IS
JUST GOING FROM THE NORTH SIDE
GRILLE TO THE 106 BROADWAY.
I THINK IT'S IT'S NOT A PROBLEM
AND I DON'T THINK THEY NEED THE
CRITERIA.
I'M VOTING NO DAVE.
I JUST I NEED IT FOR NAUSHAD
GRILL.
A LOT OF MY SON USED TO WORK
THERE, LEARNED HIS CHOPS MAKING
OMELETS WORKING IN THE KITCHEN.
THEY'RE I'D LIKE TO BE ABLE TO
SUPPORT THIS BUT I JUST DON'T
SEE A RATIONALE FOR IT.
AND IF THERE IS A LENDER OR A
POSSIBLE PURCHASER OR
DEVELOPMENT CONCEPT THAT
REQUIRES THAT SORT OF TRANSFER
,I WOULD SAY I'D LIKE TO SEE
THAT AND I WOULD BE IN FAVOR
OF IT.
BUT GIVEN I MEAN JUST WHY ARE
WE DOING THIS?
I JUST DON'T IT IT DOESN'T TO
ME IT DOESN'T HAVE A RATIONALE
AND AS MUCH AS I'D LIKE TO
SUPPORT SOMEONE I CONSIDER A
FRIEND AND A BUSINESS THAT I
CONSIDER TREMENDOUS BUSINESS IN
THE COMMUNITY, I DON'T THINK I
CAN SUPPORT IT.
IF YOU CAME TO ME WITH THAT
RATIONALE AND A LETTER FROM THE
LENDER OR A PURCHASER SAYING IT
NEEDED TO HAPPEN, THAT WOULD BE
A DIFFERENT MATTER
.
ANY OTHER THOUGHTS OR COMMENTS
?
I WILL SAY BRIEFLY SO I HAVE
HEARD OF INSTANCES PREVIOUSLY
WHERE LENDERS ARE HESITANT TO
FINANCE PROJECTS WHERE THERE
ARE SITUATIONS SUCH AS THIS
WHERE THERE'S A BUILDING
ENCROACHMENT OR PARKING
ENCROACHMENT OR SOME KIND
OF ENCROACHMENT.
SO THIS NOTION OF CLEANING IT
UP IS NOT NEW TO ME.
>> I GUESS ULTIMATELY I I DON'T
HAVE A PROBLEM WITH IT.
AS TODD SAID THIS VOUGHT THIS
ENTIRE BLOCK THESE FLATS ARE
UNIQUE.
THE SITUATION HERE IS KIND
OF UNIQUE THE WAY THEY ALL
INTERACT WITH EACH OTHER AND
SUPPORT EACH OTHER IS UNIQUE.
YES, REMOVING THE EIGHT AND
WHATEVER SQUARE FEET WOULD BE
MAKING THE LOT MORE ON
CONFORMING.
>> BUT THERE IS NO CHANCE THAT
THIS THAT WILL EVER BE
CONFORMING AND DOES IT REALLY
MATTER THAT IT'S NOT CONFORMING
GIVING ITS HISTORIC NATURE?
I DON'T KNOW THAT IT DOES.
SO YEAH I THOSE ARE JUST KIND
OF MY MY TWO CENTS.
THERE'S NO OTHER DISCUSSION
THERE MIGHT BE READY FOR
EMOTION.
WELL I CAN MAKE A MOTION BUT
I'M STILL AGONIZING OVER THIS.
SURE.
AND I MEAN YOU RAISED SOME GOOD
POINTS.
IT'S GOING TO BE NONCONFORMING
WHETHER WE TAKE THIS AND ADD IT
TO THE LARGER PARCEL OR NOT WHO
KNOWS MAYBE THAT ADDED SPACE ON
THE LARGER PARCEL WILL ENABLE
THEM TO PUT ANOTHER TWELVE
STOREY STUDENT IN A BUILDING
AND PUT MORE HOUSING IN THE
COMMUNITY WHICH WE ALL WANT
RIGHT I I JUST SAY THAT
FACETIOUSLY BUT I AGREE IT'S
IT'S LIKE I CAN'T AS I SEE YOUR
POINT WHAT WHAT'S THE
DIFFERENCE WHETHER WE DO THIS
OR NOT.
I SEE A POINT THERE I'M IN
AGONY OVER
SAYING I WANT TO
MAKE A MOTION I'LL MAKE A
MOTION.
THANK YOU DAVE ZIBA TWENTY FOUR
DASH ONE ZERO TWO FIVE TEN
FIFTEEN BROADWAY STREET IN
ACCORDANCE WITH ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A SIX HUNDRED EIGHTY
THREE SQUARE FOOT VARIANCE FROM
TABLE FIVE POINT FOURTEEN DASH
FOR MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICT
DIMENSIONS.
THE VARIANCE ALLOWS FOR EIGHT
HUNDRED SEVEN POINT FIVE SQUARE
FEET OF PARCEL AREA TO BE
TRANSFERRED TO THE ABUTTING
PROPERTY LOCATED AT 1006
PONTIAC'S STREET.
THE C3 FRINGED COMMERCIAL
DISTRICT REQUIRES A MINIMUM LOT
SIZE OF 6000 SQUARE FEET.
THE VARIANCE ALLOWS THE NEW
PERSON CONFIGURATION TO BE
FORTY 317 SQUARE FEET IN AREA.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU CHRISTINA.
JULIE.
YES PATTY.
YES I ALSO YES TODD NO MIKE YES
DAVE YES.
CHRISTINA YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED MOVING
ON TO PETITION ZIBA TWENTY FOUR
DASH ZERO ZERO TWO SEVEN TO
NINE FIVE ONE KIMBERLY RONJA
COLIBRI REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER IS SEEKING THIS
VARIANCE OF TWO THOUSAND FOUR
HUNDRED SEVENTY EIGHT SQUARE
FEET FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
THE VARIANCE WOULD ALLOW FOR A
LAND DIVISION OF THREE LOTS
THAT WOULD BE APPROXIMATELY SIX
THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET IN AREA THE PARCEL SIZE IS
CURRENTLY NINETEEN THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY TWO SQUARE
FEET IN AREA AND THREE PARCELS
IN THE RWC DISTRICT WOULD
REQUIRE A MINIMUM LOT SIZE
OF TWENTY ONE THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET.
THE PROPERTY IS OWNED BY ONE
SINGLE FAMILY AND REQUIRES
MINIMUM LOT AREA OF SEVENTY TWO
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET PER PARCEL
TO SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF KIMBERLY
ROAD AND IS IN THE ALLEN
NEIGHBORHOOD THE RESIDENCE THAT
EXISTED SINCE NINETEEN TWENTY
FIVE WAS RECENTLY DEMOLISHED
AFTER A DEMOLITION PERMIT WAS
APPROVED.
THE PARCEL IS CURRENTLY VACANT
TABLE FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN
THAT'S ONE SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS REQUIRES
THE MINIMUM LOT SIZE
OF SEVENTEEN HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET AN AREA AND THE PARCEL
WIDTH OF SIXTY FEET.
THE PROPOSED LAND DIVISION WILL
GREAT WILL CREATE TWO NEW LOTS
THREE TOTAL THAT HAVE SIXTY
FIVE FOOT WIDTH AT THE STREET.
THE APPLICANT HAS STATED THAT
THE THREE NEW SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES ARE INTENDED TO BE
CONSTRUCTED.
YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MONITORS.
YOU'LL SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
AND THE ZONING MAPS HIGHLIGHTED
IN THE CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL
MAP SHOWING SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
AND THE STRUCTURE THAT IS ON
THAT PHOTO IS NO LONGER EXISTS
.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE EXISTING SITE
DIAGRAM THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH
THE APPLICATION
AND THE NEXT
SLIDE IS A PROPOSED SITE
DIAGRAM AND YOU SEE THE
PROPOSED LAYOUT OF PARCELS A
, B
AND C WHAT THE SETBACKS AND THE
MINIMUM LOT WITH AND EACH
PARCEL SIZE AT SIX HUNDRED AND
FOUR SIXTY FOUR HUNDRED AND TWO
POINT FIVE SQUARE FEET.
>> NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION YOU SEE THE
PROPOSED THREE PARCELS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS CONCEPTUAL DESIGN
THAT WAS SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT POSSIBLY NEW HOMES
THAT THEY ARE POSSIBLY GOING TO
BUILD ON THE PROPERTY.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS I TOOK ON
THE SITE WHEN I WAS ACTUALLY
THERE.
THEY WERE IN THE PROCESS
OF CLEANING AND DEMOLISHING AN
EXISTING STRUCTURE AND JUST
PHOTOS OF WHERE THE PREVIOUS
OLD HOME WAS AND LOOKING DOWN
KIMBERLE CORNER STEG EXISTING
CONDITIONS, NEIGHBORING
PROPERTY DIRECTLY TO THE NORTH
AND PROPERTY ACROSS THE STREET
.
THAT IS ALL I HAVE AT THIS
TIME.
I'LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU MAY HAVE.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
QUESTIONS DAVE DOES THE CITY
EVER PLAN TO PAVE KIMBERLE I
HAVE NO IDEA THAT THAT WOULD BE
A QUESTION FOR OUR ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT AS
WELL?
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING.
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THE APPLICANT IS HERE, IF
YOU COULD PLEASE COME FORWARD,
SIGN IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES
.
HI EVERYONE.
I'M KEVIN ATKINS.
I'M AN ARCHITECT EATING THROUGH
THIS PROCESS DATING MY CLIENT
THROUGH THE PROCESS
.
I JUST HAVE A FEW SMALL THINGS
TO ADD.
JOHN DID A GREAT JOB
OF DESCRIBING THE ENTIRE
PROJECT.
MY CLIENT PURCHASED A LOT
OF THE EXISTING HOUSE THERE.
THE HOUSE THAT WAS ON IT WAS
HAS BEEN HAD BEEN CONDEMNED FOR
A LITTLE OVER FIVE YEARS AT
LEAST FIVE YEARS.
SO THAT HOUSE WAS DEMOLISHED.
THE HOUSE THE SITE HAS BEEN
CLEANED UP SO A LOT OF THE
VEGETATION REMAINS ANY GOOD
SIZED TREES, THINGS LIKE THAT
STAYED IN THE INTENT IS TO KEEP
AS MANY OF THOSE AS POSSIBLE.
THE LOT CURRENTLY IS ONE
HUNDRED AND NINETY FIVE FEET
WIDE WHERE ON THAT BLOCK THE
TYPICAL IS ABOUT SIXTY.
THERE ARE SOME SLIGHTLY SMALLER
FIFTY FIVE THAT ARE
NONCONFORMING, SOME SEVENTY A
LITTLE LARGER EVEN THOUGH WE
PROPOSED TO REDUCE TO THREE
LOTS THEY WOULD STILL BE SIXTY
FIVE FEET WIDE WHICH IS LARGER
THAN THE 60 FOOT REQUIREMENT.
SO THE FROM THE STREET YOU'D
NEVER KNOW THAT A LOT IS
SMALLER THAN THE SEVENTY TWO
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT REQUIRED
AND WE'RE ASKING FOR A
REDUCTION OF ABOUT EIGHT
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET PER LOT AND
THAT EQUATES TO ABOUT TWELVE
FEET IN DEPTH SHORTER THAN WHAT
WOULD BE REQUIRED.
SO IT'S ONLY ABOUT TWELVE FEET
OFF THE BACK.
WE'RE NOT ASKING TO CHANGE ANY
SETBACKS STILL ADHERING TO
TWENTY FIVE FOOT FRONT OR THE
AVERAGE 30 FOOT REAR FIVE FOOT
SIDES.
SO IT'S JUST OUR BUILDABLE AREA
GETS A LITTLE BIT SHALLOWER
THAN WHAT WOULD BE TYPICALLY
ALLOWED.
THERE ARE ABOUT SIX OTHER LOTS
ON EXIST ON THE BLOCK THAT ARE
NONCONFORMING EITHER SLIGHTLY
NARROWER THAN REQUIRED OR
SLIGHTLY LESS THAN THE SEVENTY
TWO HUNDRED SQUARE FEET WE
COULD PROPOSE TO DIVIDE THE LOT
INTO TWO AND WOULDN'T HAVE TO
BE HERE.
THAT WOULD END UP HAVING LOTS
ABOUT NINETY SEVEN AND A HALF
FEET WIDE WHICH IS BIGGER THAN
ANY OTHER LOTS ON THE STREET SO
SLIGHTLY OUT SIZING THE NORM IF
WE DO THE THREE LOTS OF SIXTY
FIVE FOOT WIDE WE WOULD BE
AVERAGE FOR THE BLOCK.
>> MY CLIENT IS LOOKING TO
BUILD THREE SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENCES AND AGAIN BY
REDUCING THE THREE PLOTS
INSTEAD OF TWO WHICH WE THINK
WOULD BE ALLOWABLE THAT ALSO
SCALES DOWN THE HOUSE A LITTLE
BIT.
THE HOUSES IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AREN'T LARGE HOUSES AND WE
DON'T WANT TO BUILD HOUSES THAT
WOULD BE GIANT AND SCALE TO THE
STREET.
SO IF I'M DOING THREE INSTEAD
OF TWO SMALLER LOTS WE THINK
THE HOUSES THAT WOULD BE BUILT
ARE IN BETTER SCALE WITH THE
WITH THE BLOCK AND FINANCIAL
ALSO BETTER IN SCALE WITH THE
BLOCK RATHER THAN TO REALLY BIG
HOUSES WITH EXPENSIVE PRICE
TAGS.
WE'D RATHER SCALE THAT DOWN.
I THINK THAT'S ALL HERE FOR ANY
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS?
I ALWAYS HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT?
SURE.
SO WE HAVE THESE LITTLE FIVE
CRITERIA TO WORK THROUGH.
ONE IS A PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY.
IT GOES ON TO SAY MY QUESTION
IS WHAT PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY IS
THERE MORE THAN A HIGHER
FINANCIAL RETURN TO THE
DEVELOPER?
IN OTHER WORDS, BUILDING THREE
HOUSES THE LAND PRICE WILL BE A
LITTLE DIFFERENT BECAUSE THE
LARGEST WE'RE BUILDING THREE
HOUSES THE HOUSE MOST OF THE
VALUE BUILDING THREE HOUSES
ALLOWS YOU TO EARN A HECK OF A
LOT MORE MONEY THAN BUILDING
TWO HOUSES.
>> ISN'T THAT RIGHT?
CAN'T TELL ME NO.
>> I MEAN THAT'S TRUE.
I DON'T KNOW.
I HAVEN'T RUN THOSE NUMBERS.
>> SO YOU TELLING ME WELL, I'M
NOT I'M NOT SAYING NO I'M NOT
SAYING YES POTENTIALLY US AT
THE INTENT THOUGH IS TO NOT
BUILD TO VERY LARGE HOUSES ON
THE BLOCK WOULD PREFER TO BUILD
MORE TO SCALE.
YOU CAN BUILD THE LOT SIZE
OF THE LAND IS FIXED.
YOU CAN BUILD A HOUSE THAT GOES
RIGHT OUT TO THE MAX.
YOU CAN BUILD ON THAT LINE WHEN
YOU CAN BUILD A SMALLER ONE IT
COULD BE THE SIZE OF THE HOUSE
IS TO SOME EXTENT WE'VE BEEN A
RANGE INDEPENDENT FROM THE SIZE
OF THE LAND TO SOME EXTENT YES.
>> YES, YES.
THE CLIENT IS IS IN THE
BUSINESS IS A DEVELOPER AND
SOME PROFIT NEEDS TO BE MADE
FROM UROSTOMY.
>> OF COURSE HE'S TRADING
TOTALLY IRRATIONAL OF COURSE.
WHAT BUT HE ALSO SAID IF YOU
JUST USE TWO HOUSES YOU
WOULDN'T NEED TO BE HERE.
AND I HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
PEOPLE THAT COME BEFORE US
WANTING SOMETHING WHEN THEY CAN
SOLVE THE PROBLEM THEMSELVES.
THEY DON'T NEED A SPECIAL
DISPENSATION FROM US.
AND THAT'S YOUR CASE?
YEP.
BUILD TWO HOUSES YOU DON'T NEED
TO BE HERE.
YEP.
NOW I STATED THAT I'VE I'VE
I'VE HEARD YOU BEFORE AND I
HAVE NO MORE WAVERLY'S NOT.
WE ALSO THINK THAT ADDING ONE
MORE HOUSE TO THE STOCK
OF HOUSES IN THE CITY IS
HELPFUL AS WELL.
YOU KNOW WE KNOW THE CITY IS
SEEKING MORE HOUSING AND THREE
IS MORE THAN TWO.
ANY OF THE QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD IF YOU'RE ACCESSING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
.
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS AT THIS
TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
I WILL THAT WE DID RECEIVE TWO
LETTERS REGARDING THIS PETITION
ONE FROM TERROR GRUBER AND
BARBARA CHUTE'S GRUBER AT TWO
EIGHT FIVE FIVE KIMBERLY ROAD.
THEY ARE FINE WITH GRANTING THE
VARIANTS AND ONE FROM SARAH
GOLDIN AT TWO EIGHT SEVEN FOUR
KIMBERLY ROAD WHO IS NOT
OPPOSED TO GRANTING THE
VARIANCE WITH THAT.
THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
AND HEARING DISCUSSION.
OH OK.
SO JUST SHORT COMMENT THAT I'M
IN SUPPORT OF THE PROJECT.
IT SEEMS THE RIGHT SCALABLE
SOLUTION AND TO PROVIDE THREE
HOMES THAT FIT IN THE CHARACTER
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE
TWO HOMES EVEN THOUGH THAT THEY
COULD DO IT THAT WAY DOESN'T
MEAN THAT THEY SHOULD AND
THEY'RE JUST BEING MORE AWARE I
THINK OF THE OF THE OVERALL
CONTEXT OF THESE THREE NEW
HOMES WITHIN THIS CERTAIN
WITHIN THIS PARTICULAR
COMMUNITY.
SO THAT'S WHY I'M IN SUPPORT
OF THE PROJECT AS PRESENTED.
>> THANK YOU, MIKE.
YEAH.
I MEAN IT'S EASY FOR ME I THINK
GIVEN THE NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH
I'M PRETTY FAMILIAR WITH A GOOD
FRIEND WHO LIVES OVER THERE
THESE LOT SIZES MAKE A LOT
OF SENSE TO ME.
I TAKE THAT POINT AND I RESPECT
IT BUT I DON'T KNOW HONESTLY.
I MEAN YOU COULD YOU KNOW, THE
FINANCIAL RETURN MAYBE MAYBE
IT'S BIGGER MAYBE IT'S NOT
DEPENDING ON THE TWO HOUSES
THAT WOULD GET BUILT.
SO I DON'T WANT TO SPECULATE ON
THAT.
>> SO YEAH, I DON'T HAVE AN
ISSUE WITH THIS WHATSOEVER.
I WANT TO VOTE YES PETTY.
>> I'M ALSO IN AGREEMENT.
I THINK THREE HOUSES IS BETTER
THAN TWO GIVEN OUR HOUSING
MARKET AND OUR AND THAT WELL
I'M GOING TO VOTE NO.
I THINK IT'S VERY CLEAR THAT
CRITERION NUMBER TWO PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY.
>> THERE IS NO PRACTICAL
THE DEVELOPER BEHAVING TOTALLY
DIFFICULTY.
RATIONALLY WANTS TO MAXIMIZE
THE DEVELOPER BEHAVING TOTALLY
HIS FINANCIAL RETURN THAT
RATIONALLY WANTS TO MAXIMIZE
DOESN'T CUT IT IN TERMS
HIS FINANCIAL RETURN THAT
OF MEETING CRITERIA NUMBER TWO.
DOESN'T CUT IT IN TERMS
SO THAT FALLS OUT AND NUMBER
OF MEETING CRITERIA NUMBER TWO.
FIVE, THEY CAN SPLIT INTO TWO.
SO THAT FALLS OUT AND NUMBER
THEY DON'T NEED TO BE HERE AND
FIVE, THEY CAN SPLIT INTO TWO.
NUMBER THREE, YOU KNOW, THERE
THEY DON'T NEED TO BE HERE AND
ARE NO PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES
NUMBER THREE, YOU KNOW, THERE
THAT WE DON'T GET.
ARE NO PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES
IT DOESN'T GET THE VARIANCE TO
THAT WE DON'T GET.
BUILD TWO HOUSES AND IF HE
IT DOESN'T GET THE VARIANCE TO
BEHAVES RATIONALLY HE WILL
BUILD TWO HOUSES AND IF HE
BUILD THE LARGEST HOUSE THAT HE
BEHAVES RATIONALLY HE WILL
CAN AND SELL IT FOR THE MOST
BUILD THE LARGEST HOUSE THAT HE
MONEY THAT HE CAN.
CAN AND SELL IT FOR THE MOST
HE'S NOT GOING TO BECAUSE
MONEY THAT HE CAN.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE THREE
HE'S NOT GOING TO BECAUSE
HOUSES SOMEHOW.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE THREE
OH FOR THE PUBLIC COULD BUILD A
HOUSES SOMEHOW.
HOUSE HALF AS BIG AS HE WAS
OH FOR THE PUBLIC COULD BUILD A
GOING TO BE BUILT.
HOUSE HALF AS BIG AS HE WAS
THAT'S JUST NUTTY AND OF COURSE
GOING TO BE BUILT.
HE'S GOING TO BUILD THE BIGGEST
THAT'S JUST NUTTY AND OF COURSE
HOUSE HE CAN.
HE'S GOING TO BUILD THE BIGGEST
HE SHOULDN'T BE HERE.
HOUSE HE CAN.
HE CAN SOLVE IT ON HIS OWN.
HE SHOULDN'T BE HERE.
I'M VOTING
NO.
IT DOESN'T COME CLOSE TO
MEETING OUR FIVE CRITERIA.
>> CHRISTINA, DID YOU HAVE I
DON'T WANT TO GO NO, GO AHEAD
FIRST CESAREANS.
I THINK FOR ME KNOWING THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND KNOWING THAT
THE A LOT THAT IS BEING SOLD IS
AND I CAN I CAN I COULD GO
EITHER WAY ON THIS BUT FOR ME
THE DIFFICULTY IS THAT THAT LOT
ISN'T QUITE BIG ENOUGH TO MAKE
THE HOUSES SEEM REASONABLE AND
FIT IN WITH THE EXISTING HOUSES
ON THAT IN THE AREA AND SO
THESE ARE THIS IS A SMALLISH
CONCESSION TO BUILDING MORE
HOUSES THAT ARE MORE IN KEEPING
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND YES,
THEY COULD DO TWO HOUSES.
BUT I THINK ONE OF THE REASONS
PEOPLE COME HERE IS IS THEY
DON'T WANT TO AND IT'S NOT
REALLY IN THE BEST IT'S NOT IN
THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE CITY
OR REALLY THAT NEIGHBORHOOD
WHICH IS A COOL NEIGHBORHOOD
OF LITTLE INFILL PROJECTS THAT
ARE SOME BIGGER, SOME SMALLER
AND I THINK THIS WOULD FIT IN
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT
MAKES A LOT OF SENSE FOR ME.
I CAN SEE WHERE THAT WOULDN'T
BE CONSIDERED A HARDSHIP FOR ME
BECAUSE THIS LOT IS SO CLOSE TO
BEING ABLE TO EVEN SPLIT INTO
THREE THAT I AM HAPPY TO VOTE
YES ON IT.
JUST I AGREE WITH EVERYTHING
YOU JUST SAID, JULIE AND FOR ME
I APPRECIATE THAT THE SET BACKS
ARE STAYING WHAT THE ORDINANCE
REQUIRES THAT'S NOT BEING
REDUCED AS WELL.
SO THAT FOR ME IS IS KIND OF A
TICK IN THE IN THE BOX.
>> DAVE, I WANT TO NOTE THAT
THERE ARE PLENTY OF LOCKS ALONG
THE STREET THAT HAVE NARROWER
FRONTAGES THAN 65 FEET TO 65
FEET FRONTAGE EXCEEDS THE
MINIMUM WIDTH OF SIXTY FEET
REQUIRED BY THE ZONING CODE .
THE TWO BLOCKS TO THE DIRECTLY
TO THE NORTH OF THIS PARCEL ARE
SMALLER THAN THIS EITHER THAN
ANY OF THESE THREE PROPOSED
LOCKS.
I THINK IT FITS WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD I THINK GIVEN THAT
WE HAVE SUPPORT FROM NEIGHBORS
,I CAN SAY THAT THE VARIANCE
WILL RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL
JUSTICE BEING DONE AND THE
RIGHTS OF OTHERS.
WHICH PROPERTY WOULD BE
AFFECTED BY ALLOWING A VARIANCE
ARE NOT NEGATIVELY IMPACTED.
SO TO ME IT CLEARLY MEETS THAT
STANDARD IN OUR VARIANCE TABLE
AND I'M GOING TO SUPPORT ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION.
VERY FAIR MOTION I THINK I'LL
MAKE A MOTION.
THANK YOU DE ZEBA TWENTY FOUR
DASHTY OR ZERO TWENTY SEVEN TWO
NINE FIVE ONE KIMBERLE ROAD
COLLARENEBRI REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER IS SEEKING A
VARIANCE OF TWO THOUSAND FOUR
HUNDRED SEVENTY EIGHT SQUARE
FEET FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN CASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
THE VARIANCE WOULD ALLOW FOR A
LAND DIVISION OF THREE LINES
THAT WOULD BE APPROXIMATELY
SIXTY FOUR HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
AN AREA THE PARCEL SIZE IS
CURRENTLY NINETEEN THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED 22 SQUARE FEET IN AREA
AND THREE PARCELS IN THE R1
DISTRICT WOULD REQUIRE A
MINIMUM LOT SIZE OF TWENTY ONE
THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET.
THE PROPERTY IS OWNED R1 SEE
SINGLE FAMILY AND REQUIRES A
MINIMUM WIDE AREA OF 7200
SQUARE FEET PER PARCEL.
THANK YOU DAVE.
DO YOU HAVE SUPPORT THANK YOU,
JULIE.
NO.
JULIE YES MIKE YES, DAVE GIVATI
YES, CHRISTINA YES PATTY YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES.
>> THE REQUEST IS GRANTED
MOVING TO PETITION ZIBA TWENTY
FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO TWO EIGHT
ONE ZERO THREE THREE PACARD ST.
JOHN SCOTT CLOSSON REPRESENTING
THE PROPERTY OWNER IS
REQUESTING RELIEF FROM SECTION
FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TO
ALTERATION TO A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE IN ORDER TO CREATE
HABITABLE SPACE IN THE BASEMENT
OF AN EXISTING FIVE UNIT RENTAL
PROPERTY.
THE PROPERTY IS PERFORMING FOR
A LOT AREA LOT WITH AND
SETBACKS.
THE OWNERS ARE SEEKING TO
REDUCE THE NUMBER OF UNITS FROM
FIVE TO FOUR.
THE NEW UNIT IN THE BASEMENT
WILL BE A SIX BEDROOM.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED OUR
FORESEE MULTIPLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF PACKER
STREET AND NEAR THE PACKARD AND
SYLVAN AVENUE INTERSECTION.
THE PARCEL IS IN THE NORTH
BERN'S PARK NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE AREA IS SIX THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED TWENTY ONE SQUARE FEET
IN AREA.
THE HOME WAS CONSTRUCTED AROUND
NINETEEN POINT ONE, ACCORDING
TO THE CITY ASSESSOR'S RECORDS
.
THE EXISTING STRUCTURES
CERTIFIED FOR ONE EFFICIENCY
APARTMENT WITH ONE OCCUPANT
THREE ONE BEDROOM APARTMENT FOR
A TOTAL FOUR OCCUPANTS AND A
FIVE BEDROOM APARTMENT WITH SIX
SIX OCCUPANTS.
THE OWNER IS PROPOSING TO
REDUCE THE NUMBER OF UNITS FROM
TWO TO FOUR THAT WILL EACH
CONTAIN SIX BEDROOMS FOR A
TOTAL OF TWENTY FOUR BEDROOMS
IN THE HOME.
THE BASEMENT WILL REQUIRE A
MINOR ADJUSTMENT TO SQUARE UP
THE FOUNDATION AND THE THIRD
FLOOR WALLS WILL BE ELEVATED TO
PROVIDE THE REQUIRED HEADROOM
HAD ROOM FOR THE TOP FLOOR
OF THE PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION IS
TO BE COMPLETED ON THE INTERIOR
OF THE BUILDING EXCEPT FOR THE
MINOR BUMP OUT FOR THE BASEMENT
FOUNDATION.
YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MONITORS.
YOU'LL SEE THAT THE FIRST SLIDE
IS THE ZONING MAP.
YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED IN THE CENTER YOUR
SCREEN AND LIKE I SAID IT'S
JUST BASICALLY ACROSS STREET
FROM SYLVAN ON THE EAST SIDE
OF THE STREET THE NEXT SLIDE IS
THE AREA MAP SHOWING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES THE
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE NEW AND EXISTING SITE
PLAN
AND THEN THE NEXT SLIDE
SHOWS THE EXISTING FIRST FLOOR
PLAN AND I BELIEVE THAT'S TWO
UNITS ON THE FIRST FLOOR AND
THEN THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE
EXISTING SECOND FLOOR PLAN AND
THEN THERE'S THE EXISTING THIRD
FLOOR PLAN EXISTING BASEMENT IS
CURRENTLY NOT HABITABLE AND
THEN THE PROPOSED NEW FIRST
FLOOR PLAN WITH ONE UNIT WITH
SIX BEDROOMS.
THE NEXT IS THE NEW SECOND
FLOOR PLAN WITH SIX BEDROOMS
AND THE NEW THIRD FLOOR PLAN
WITH SIX BEDROOMS AND THEN
THAT'S THE NEW BASEMENT.
WE'LL HAVE WINDOW WELLS EGRESS
AND THIS IS THE AREA WHERE IT'S
GOING TO BE SQUARED UP THE
FOUNDATION BOTH THE GREAT IN
AREAS LIKE SLIDE SHOWS EXISTING
S ELEVATION EXISTING NORTH
ELEVATION, THE EAST AND WEST
EXISTING ELEVATIONS AND THEN
THE NEW SOUTH ELEVATION WITH
YOU'LL SEE THAT THE DECK ON THE
RIGHT INSIDE DECK AND STAIRS
FOR EGRESS THAT'S GOING TO BE
ON THE BACK OF THE HOUSE AND
THE REAR YARD AND THE NEW EAST
OR NEW WEST ELEVATION NEW NORTH
ELEVATION AND NEW EAST
ELEVATIONS.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS OF THE
PROPERTY THAT I TOOK ITS
CURRENTLY IN ITS PRESENT STATE
LOOKING DOWN THE DRIVEWAY AND
THIS IS THE BACKYARD AND THIS
IS LOOKING THE REAR ELEVATION
OF THE BUILDING AND THE
APPLICATION DISCUSS A LITTLE
BIT MORE ABOUT IT BUT THE FIRE
ESCAPES ALL THAT.
THE EGRESS WILL ALSO BE ALL NEW
AND FIXED UP AS WELL.
AND LIKE I SAID, THERE'S
ANOTHER EGRESS ON THE SIDE.
IT'S GOING TO BE CLEANED UP AND
THIS IS DIRECTLY ACROSS THE
STREET FROM THIS PROPERTY.
THE ELEVATION PICTURES DON'T DO
A LOT OF JUSTICE.
THESE BLACK AND WHITES IT'S
KIND OF DIFFICULT TO SEE THE
FINISHED PRODUCT.
SO THE APPLICANT SUBMITTED
THAT'S WHAT IT'S GOING TO
GENERALLY LOOK LIKE THE
FINISHED PRODUCT IS A LITTLE
BIT BETTER PERSPECTIVE THAN THE
BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOS AND THAT
IS THE END OF MY PRESENTATION.
>> I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
YOU HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
QUESTIONS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS HERE PLEASE
COME FORWARD SIGN IN STATE YOUR
NAME FOR THE RECORD YOU'LL HAVE
FIVE MINUTES
.
I'M SCOTT CLOSSON HERE ON
BEHALF OF THE PROPERTY OWNER
OF TEN THIRTY THREE PACARD.
SO THIS PROPERTY'S IN PRETTY
DESPERATE NEED OF SOME
RESTORATION AND REPAIR.
IT HAS FIRE ESCAPES AND
STAIRWAY'S ON THE OUTSIDE THAT
ARE REALLY PRETTY ROUGH.
SO BY ALLOWING THIS RELIEF, ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT WILL DO
BESIDES GETTING RID OF THOSE
FIRE THOSE EXTERIOR STAIRWAYS
IS IT'S GOING TO HELP INCREASE
THE DENSITY ON THIS SITE WHEN
WE DO THESE KIND
OF RENOVATIONS, WE UPGRADE
EVERYTHING FROM HEATING,
PLUMBING, MECHANICAL SO
EVERYTHING WILL BE ON THE
INSIDE WINDOWS WILL BE
REPLACED.
WE'RE ALSO ADDING A FIRE
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM THAT'S
REQUIRED SO THERE WILL FIRE
SUPPRESSION THROUGHOUT THE
BUILDING.
THERE WILL BE A NICE EGRESS ON
THE BACK THAT'S KIND OF LIKE A
DUCK KNOWS EACH PART, EACH
FLORAL EXIT OUT THE BACK AND
THE FRONT PORCH LOOKS STILL
REMAIN AND THAT'LL ENTER THE
FIRST FLOOR APARTMENT.
SO THE SQUARING UP SECTIONS
THAT WE'RE REQUESTING ARE
REALLY WHERE THOSE STAIRCASES
ARE NOW AND IT'S JUST GOING TO
INFILL THAT.
SO WE'RE NOT GOING REALLY ANY
FARTHER THAN WHERE ANYTHING
ELSE CURRENTLY EXISTS AND WE'RE
ACTUALLY GOING TO REDUCE SOME
OF THE FRONT SET BACK.
WE'RE ONE OF THE FIRE ESCAPES
IS IS INTO THAT THE ONE THAT
THE UNPAINTED ONE THAT YOU SEE
THERE.
SO I FEEL LIKE IT'S A GOOD FIT
FOR THE AREA AND WE HAVE A HIGH
RISE COME IN LIKE I THINK ONLY
THREE BLOCKS AWAY.
SO SO WE'RE HOPING WE CAN DO
THESE RENOVATIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITION SO
FROM MY COUNT YOU'RE GOING FROM
IT LOOKS TO ME LIKE A ONE
BEDROOM AND AN EFFICIENCY TWO
TWO BEDROOMS AND A FIVE BEDROOM
EXISTING.
>> YEAH IT'S GROWN FROM ELEVEN
OCCUPANTS TO WOULD BE TWENTY
FOUR.
>> ARE YOU ADDING ANY PARKING.
>> I KNOW THAT'S NOT A
REQUIREMENT NO BUT THERE'S FIVE
OR SIX PARKING SPOTS IN THE
BACK THAT REMAIN THAT AREN'T
AFFECTED BY THIS.
DO YOU MANAGE OTHER RENTAL
HOUSING OR DO YOU FIND ANY
OTHER TENANTS BRING IN CARS
THERE'S A PEOPLE OTHER PEOPLE
ON THIS BOARD THINK THAT
TENANTS DON'T HAVE CARS ANY
MORE.
>> TENANTS DO HAVE CARS BUT
IT'S DEFINITELY PLUS IT'S
DEFINITELY LESS AND LESS I'M
FINDING SO OBVIOUSLY WHEN I WAS
YOUNGER I FELT LIKE IT WAS A
NECESSITY TO HAVE A CAR BUT
NOWADAYS IT'S THERE'S I CAN'T
BELIEVE THE AMOUNT OF PEOPLE
WHO DON'T HAVE THEM OR THAT'S
WHY THEY WANT TO BE IN THIS
AREA.
SO THERE'S ACCESS TO THE BUSSES
EASY TO GET AROUND, EASY TO GET
TO THE UNIVERSITY.
>> SO EVEN THERE'S A BUS TO
DETROIT YOU CAN TAKE.
>> YEAH, YES.
AND WE HAVE A BOARD MEMBER
RECENTLY RECEIVED SOME
NOTORIETY FOR BEING THE MOST
ONE OF THE PEOPLE THAT MOST
USES THAT BUS.
>> OH YEAH.
OK, THOSE ARE MY ONLY QUESTIONS
THAT DECADES AGO MY WIFE AND I
RENTED 800 SYLVAINE FOR A
COUPLE OF YEARS.
THAT'S A NICE NEIGHBORHOOD IS
VERY CONVENIENT.
I'M GLAD TO SEE THAT YOU'RE
TAKING A PROPERTY THAT NEEDS
WORK AND TURNING IT INTO A GOOD
PLACE WITH FIRE SUPPRESSION
SPRINKLERS AND ALL THAT.
SO IT'S THANK YOU.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITION?
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, I DON'T SEE
ANYONE HERE BUT IF THERE'S
ANYONE WHO IS ACCESSING THE
MEETING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE OR USE THE RACE HAND
FEATURE.
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS AT THIS
TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE'RE IN DISCUSSION
.
>> DAVE, I'M GOING TO VOTE IN
FAVOR OF THIS.
IT'S AN ALTERATION
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OUR
REQUIREMENTS TO MEET ARE EASY
TO MEET AND THIS IS A
SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT.
THE PARCEL I PERSONALLY HAVE
CONCERNS ABOUT LIMITED PARKING
IN THESE NEIGHBORHOODS AROUND
THIS AREA AND YOU KNOW MORE
THAN DOUBLING THE NUMBER
OF OCCUPANTS ON THE PARCEL IS
GOING TO HAVE SPILLOVER
CONSEQUENCE ON ON-STREET
PARKING IN THE NEARBY
NEIGHBORHOODS.
BUT I'M GOING TO SUPPORT ANY
OTHER COMMENTS.
I THINK WE'RE READY FOR
EMOTION, ZIBA TWENTY FOUR DASH
ONE ZERO TWO EIGHT TEN THIRTY
THREE PACKARD STREET ALTERATION
TO A NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
ALLOW CONSTRUCTION OF NEW
HABITABLE SPACE IN THE
BASEMENT.
THE RESIDENCE IS AN EXISTING
FIVE UNIT RENTAL HOME THAT WILL
BE REDUCED TO FOUR UNITS AFTER
THE PROPOSED INTERIOR
ALTERATIONS.
THE BASEMENT ALTERATION AND
SMALL BUMP OUT IS TO BE BUILT
THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
>> THANK YOU DAVE.
DO YOU HAVE SUPPORT MIKE?
OH THANK YOU MIKE.
THAT HE TRIED TO PASS RIGHT
DAVE GIVATI YES.
>> CHRISTINA YES.
PATTY YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES TED YES.
JULIE YES.
MIKE YES.
>> THE REQUEST IS GRANTED
MOVING ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
WE HAVE NONE NEW BUSINESS.
>> WE HAVE REPORTS FROM COUNCIL
BUT DARMA IS NOT HERE SO NO
REPORT FROM COUNCIL TONIGHT
COMMUNICATIONS WE ADDRESSED
THOSE WITH THE KIMBERLY ROAD
PETITION PUBLIC COMMENT IF
THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC
WHO WISHES TO ADDRESS THE ZIBA
ON A NON PUBLIC HEARING HEADER
,NOW'S YOUR CHANCE NOT SEEING
ANYBODY NOBODY REMOTELY ALRIGHT
WITH THAT.
>> DO I HAVE MOTION TO ADJOURN?
>> THANK YOU.
MY SUPPORT SUPPORT FROM DAVE
POWELL IN FAVOR SAY I OPPOSED
WE'RE JOINED.
>> THANKS EVERYONE.